
Equipment
2 8×4-inch bread pans
Ingredients
 
Proofing Yeast
2 ½ teaspoons active dry yeast
½ Tablespoon granulated sugar
2 cups warm water , at 105°F
Bread
¼ cup (57 g) melted butter , plus 1 Tablespoon for brushing on top
¼ cup (50 g) granulated sugar
½ cup (133 g) evaporated milk , or room temp milk
2 teaspoons salt , or 1 Tablespoon kosher salt
6-7 cups (850 g) bread flour , or all-purpose flour
1 Tablespoon butter
For serving: Butter and Jam
Instructions
Proofing the Yeast
In a small bowl, add the yeast and sugar. Pour the warm water over the yeast mixture and let it sit 5 to 10 minutes, or until nice and bubbly. If it doesn't foam, toss it and start over. The water was either too hot or the yeast was not fresh (check the expiration date to be sure it isn't old).
Bread
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, mix together the butter, sugar, evaporated milk, and salt on medium low. Mix in the yeast mixture just until combined.
Swap out the paddle attachment for a dough hook. With the mixer on low, add 3 cups flour until combined. Add 1 cup flour at a time and stir until combined. After adding a total of 6 cups flour, add 1/4 cup flour at a time until the dough is no longer sticking to the sides. Then knead 3-5 minutes. It’s ready when the dough is soft and no longer sticky.
Lightly coat the ball of dough and the sides of the bowl with cooking spray or a little oil to prevent sticking. Cover the bowl with a warm towel. Set by a window and let rise 1 hour, or until doubled in size. When it has risen over the bowl, punch it down, and transfer to a floured surface.
Spray 2 8×4-inch bread pans with nonstick cooking spray.
Knead the dough 2 to 3 minutes. Cut into 2 equal pieces. Using a rolling pin, roll one piece into a rectangle. Starting at the shorter side, roll the dough up and tuck the ends under. Place into a bread pan. Repeat with the remaining piece.
Preheat oven to 375°F and place the rack in the middle of the oven.
Let the loaves rise until double in size, about 45 minutes, while oven preheats. Bake 25 to 35 minutes, or until golden on top and cooked through to 185°F in the center. If the tops are browning too fast, tent the top with foil.
Remove from the pans to a cooling rack. Brush the tops with butter. Slice once slightly cooled. Enjoy with butter and jam, if desired.